1. Data:
	Data is a collection of discrete or continuous values that convey information, describing the quantity, quality, fact, statistics, other basic units of meaning, or simply sequences of symbols that may be further interpreted formally.

2. Database:
	Database is an organized collection of data (also known as a data store) stored and accessed electronically through the use of a database management system

3. Entity Relationship model:
	An entity relationship model in DBMS is a high-level data model that represents the logical structure of a database graphically. It defines the entities, attributes, and relationships that exist in a database system.

4. Normalization:
	Normalization is the process of organizing the data in the database. Normalization is used to minimize the redundancy from a relation or set of relations. It is also used to eliminate undesirable characteristics like Insertion, Update, and Deletion Anomalies.

5. Denormalization:
	Denormalization is a database optimization technique that involves adding redundant data to one or more tables in order to improve the performance and efficiency of the database. It is usually applied after normalization, which is the process of organizing the data in the database to minimize redundancy and anomalies.

6. Case Study on E-R diagram

7. Case study on Normalization

8. Dimension Modeling ( Star & Snowflake Schema ):
	Dimension modelling is a data modelling technique that is used to design databases for data warehouses. It involves creating fact and dimension tables that store the data of interest and the context of the data  respectively.
	Star: fact table is linked to dimension tables

	snowflake: fact table have links with dimension tables and dimension tables may further have links with 	another dimension table.

9. Slowly Changing Dimension ( SCD ) :
	A Slowly Changing Dimension (SCD) is a dimension that stores and manages both current and historical data over time in a data warehouse. It is considered and implemented as one of the most critical ETL tasks in tracking the history of dimension records.

There are three types of SCDs and you can use Warehouse Builder to define, deploy, and load all three types of SCDs.

The three types of SCDs are:

Type 1 SCDs - Overwriting

In a Type 1 SCD the new data overwrites the existing data. Thus the existing data is lost as it is not stored anywhere else. This is the default type of dimension you create. You do not need to specify any additional information to create a Type 1 SCD.

Type 2 SCDs - Creating another dimension record

A Type 2 SCD retains the full history of values. When the value of a chosen attribute changes, the current record is closed. A new record is created with the changed data values and this new record becomes the current record. Each record contains the effective time and expiration time to identify the time period between which the record was active.

Type 3 SCDs - Creating a current value field

A Type 3 SCD stores two versions of values for certain selected level attributes. Each record stores the previous value and the current value of the selected attribute. When the value of any of the selected attributes changes, the current value is stored as the old value and the new value becomes the current value.